Video - https://youtu.be/9PZ7uSHI8SM

New Haven Meet-up
Code.cs50.io


My project is called New Haven Meet-Up. It is a website that was coded with Jinja2 and Flask that allows users to schedule lunches, breakfast and dinners with other registered users. A brief summary of my project is that it is a website in which individuals can register and schedule meals at local New Haven restaurants or just any restaurants with other registered users. They are able to schedule meals through the schedule meal tab on the website. Additionally, my website allows you to send friend requests to other registered users and allows the individual to search other users using the search feature. The search feature displays the searched users’ information such as bio, full name, email and phone number. However, all of these users’ information are completely optional to the users, as the user can decide how much information they want other users to see. This search and scheduling meals feature is only for registered users. There is a login function that allows registered users to login.

The reason New Haven Meet-Up was created was because it provided a website that would allow users and individuals to schedule meals. Rather than texting, the New Haven Meet-up website would centralize all their scheduled meals on one page, in which they could just check rather than scroll through their text to see what meals they scheduled. Additionally, instead of having the meals on their google calendar, the website could separate the meals from homework and meetings. The tabs on the website include my meals, request, friends, friend requests, schedule meal, meal requests, search, my profile, login, register, logout.

Steps to Compile and configure the project
The New Haven Meet-Up was created with Flask and Jinja2. It contains html and css files, and it also has python files such as app.py. The website was coded in code.cs50.io. All the files are under the project folder. The first step is to load the file into the code.cs50.io. You would do this by importing the project folder into the codespace. After you have loaded the folder into your codespace, in the terminal window, type “cd project”. This would lead to the directory of the project folder. After this command runs, type “flask run”. This would run the website, and if the command worked successfully, then a link should appear in the terminal window. Copy that link and paste it into a new browser or if you are using a laptop press control and click on the link. For a Mac, you would click the link while pressing the command button. This would open the New Haven Meet-Up website. From there, you can officially use the website.

When you first load the website, the first page that will pop up is the login page. If you are a registered user already, you can login through this page. You would type your username and password that you registered with. If you login successfully, it will lead to the home page or “My Meals” page of the website. However, if you are not registered as a user, on the top right corner there is a button called “Register”. You would click the register button. Once you click on the register button, it would lead to the registration page. On the registration page, you can register by typing your username and password twice to confirm. If the username is already taken, it will provide an apology message saying the username is taken already. After you register on the website, it will redirect you back to the login page for you to log in to the website.

Once you have logged in to the website, it will bring you to the home page. The home page is called “My Meals” and is in blue colored text. The home page will show all of your currently scheduled meals with other users. If you are newly registered, your homepage will probably not have any scheduled meals. The other tab next to My Meals is request. Request is a simple text field that allows you to request other users to become friends. You would type the username in and press the request button. If the username does not exist, it would state the username does not exist. If you try to request to become friends with your own username, it will return an error message and won’t let you request. Additionally, if you try to request a username and you already have a pending friend request to that user, it won’t let you request, as it will say you have a pending request and waiting on the other user. However, if the user does exist and you click the request button, it will lead you to the friends page.

The friends page is next to the request page. The friend page shows all of your current friends usernames that you have. The friends page will only show the friends that have accepted your friend request, or show the friends that you have accepted their friend request. Essentially, this will show every friend that you have. Next to that page is a friend request page. The friend request page shows a table of all the users that have sent you a friend request. Below the text field is a table of all pending friend requests. If you want to accept or decline the friend request, you would simply type the username in the text field and press accept or decline. If the username is not in your pending friend requests, then it will return an error message. Once you have accepted the request or declined the friend request, it will show a confirmation message saying you either accepted or declined the friend request. The other user that you have accepted or declined will not know whether or not you have declined the request or accepted the request. If you accept their friend request, it will show in their friends page.

Next to the friend requests page is the schedule meal page. The schedule meal page allows you to send meal requests to other users that are registered. You will type in all the information in the form. The form contains the username (you want to schedule the meal with), meal type, which gives you three options, time, date, restaurant name and any additional information in the notes section. All of these fields are mandatory if you want to schedule a meal except the notes section. If you try to submit the form without any one of the required fields, it will not allow you to schedule or send the meal request. If one of the fields is left empty besides the notes section, it will result in an error message. If the username that you are trying to send the meal request does not exist, then it would result in an error message that would lead you back to the same page. To summarize, all the fields are required besides the notes section and the username must be a registered user.

The tab next to the schedule meal page is meal requests. This page shows all the meal requests that were sent to you from other users. Similarly to the friend requests page, you can accept or decline these meal requests. Below the text field on the page is a table of all the meal requests that were sent to you. One of the columns on the table is called meal id. This will be used to accept or decline the meal request. For example, if you have a pending meal request, it will have an assigned meal id. If you want to accept or decline a certain meal, you would type the meal id into the text field and press accept or decline. If you typed an invalid meal id, it will result in an error and reload you to the same page. If you accept a pending meal, it will bring you back to my meals page or the home page. Your recently accepted meal request will now show up on your homepage or your scheduled meals. If you decline a meal request, it will not notify the other user, and it will show you a confirmation message that you declined the meal request.

Lastly, on the top right of the screen are three tabs, which are search, my profile and log out. The search table if clicked will show a text field and search button. You are able to search for other registered users. If the username does not exist, it will show a message saying that the username does not exist. If the username does exist, then it will bring you to another page. This page will show all of the information about the user searched. The information about the user that will be displayed will be entirely dependent on the searched user. If the searched user only registered, then the only information that would appear is the username. However, if the username updated their profile, then the information shown is what they updated their profile with.

The tab next to the search page is the my profile page. This page will allow users to update their profile and information. It will provide a form that allows users to update their profile. Some of the information include email, phone number, name, age and bio. All of these fields are optional, but if the user wants other users to know more about them, they can update their profile. Whatever information the user puts in this form will be the information that is shown when their username is searched. Next to this page is the log out page. If this is clicked, it will log the current user out and bring them back to the login page.



