My project is called New Haven Meet-Up. It is a website that was coded with Jinja2 and Flask that allows users to schedule lunches, breakfast and dinners with other registered users. A brief summary of my project is that it is a website in which individuals can register and schedule meals at local New Haven restaurants or just any restaurants with other registered users. They are able to schedule meals through the schedule meal tab on the website. Additionally, my website allows you to send friend requests to other registered users and allows the individual to search other users using the search feature. The search feature displays the searched users’ information such as bio, full name, email and phone number. However, all of these users’ information are completely optional to the users, as the user can decide how much information they want other users to see. This search and scheduling meals feature is only for registered users. There is a login function that allows registered users to login.

For a more technical approach about my project, my website was coded with Flask and Jinja2. The website was coded in code.cs50.io. Flask and Jinja2 were specifically used for my website because of the many functionalities and functions that were needed for the website. Flask was used because it saved a lot of time as the layout of the webpage was almost the same. The layout of each webpage was the same as each other. Using Flask allowed me to build import tools and libraries into my code. My webpages were created with flask to help make the design easier and more conform across all the pages. Jinja2 was also used for the python aspect. Jinja2 was used because my website needed python to execute some of the functions such as the button requests. Other types of coding languages used included SQL. SQL was used to query into the databases and have databases. Information needed to be stored and used in databases and SQL allowed me to choose the information. Additionally, php was my database that allowed me to store the information needed.

I had to implement many functions into the website. The functions that were implemented included a friend request system, search system, updating profile information and scheduling or sending meal requests. The hardest function to implement was the friend request system, sending meal requests and the search function. These were primarily the hardest three functions to implement. The design aspect was also a bit challenging for me at the beginning because I wasn’t quite familiar with Flask and how to edit and design. My search, friend request and meal request were my hardest outcomes. In order to implement these functions, I had to use many tables.

There were three tables in the SQL database. The three tables are ftable, meals and users. The users is the table that will store and contain all the information about the registered and current users. This table stores the information about the user. The information stored is the id, username, password (which is hashed into a hash code), name, email, phone, age, and bio. Many functions use this table such as register, login and my profile. All of the information used for these functions are referenced in the users table or stored in the users table. The second table is ftable. Ftable stands for friends table. This table stores all of the information about the friendship status between two users. The columns in the tables include user1, user2, which are two users that requested to be friends and status. Lastly, the last table is the meals table. The meals table has a lot more columns. This table stores all the information about the scheduled meals and meal requests. It contains all the information such as user, meal type, time, date, restaurant, notes and status of the meal request and lastly id of the meal request. These are the three tables that are used for the website and referenced throughout the website.

For my website, I had some css edits. Some of my css edits included changing the website and the design of the website. All of my functions are in the menu bar of the website. Additionally, the colors and fonts of all the text are the same. I chose a blue color for the My Meals tab because I wanted it to stand out from the rest of the tabs since My Meals is technically the homepage of the website. Other css edits included creating the container and design of the text boxes. The text boxes were styled by the css. My flask was used to create a more generic outline for all of my webpages because I think a general outline to be similar would make the website look better.

The functions on the website include sending a friend request and accepting or declining the friend request, scheduling a meal with another user and accepting or declining the meal requests and lastly being able to update and search for users’ profile. These are the three main functions that were implemented in the program.

The first function is friend request. The friend request function needed three pages. The first page was request. This page was used to actually request the username and send the request. The other page was friends page which showed all the friends for the current user and the last page was friend requests which showed all of the pending friend requests for the user. The request page has multiple parts to the function. The user would type the username of the user they wanted to send the friend request to. The first thing for this function was to check if this username was a registered user. A for loop with multiple if statements were used to check if the username typed was a registered user. The if statements would check and based it off the users table. It would first compile all the usernames from the users table. Then the text that the user typed would be compared to this dictionary of all the users table. If the username did exist, then it would proceed to the next if statement. One thing that was first checked was whether or not the username typed was the same as the current user. If it was, it would result in an error. If it wasn’t then it would move onto the next if statement. The next if statement essentially checked if the friends table or ftable had these two users. If the ftable did not have a pending request for this users friend request, then it would use SQL to insert this friend request into the table, while also making the status to 0. There are three statuses for the table. 0 is for pending, 2 is accepted and 1 is declined. Once the status is added to the table then, it would move on. If these two users already exist in the table, it would check the status. If the status of these users are 0, then it would show a message saying you already have a pending request. If the status is 2, then it would say you are already friends and redirect to the friends page. If status is 1, then it would do the same as if there was no row with the two users.

The next function would be the friends function. The friends function is a friends table that shows the current friends that the user has. This table is created by looping through ftable. It will loop through ftable where user2 is equal to the current user or user1 is equal to the current user and the status is equal to 2. This means that these two users are friends. After selecting all the rows that fit into the criteria, we have to display the friends of the current user. In order to do that, we have to loop through each row. The user1 or user2 that is not equal to current username would imply that the user is the friend of the current user, and we are trying to display that username. In order to display those usernames, a list was created. This list is created to store the usernames of the current users' friends. The length of the list is also stored, as it will be needed for flask. This is how the current friends of the user are displayed. It requires a for loop and multiple if check statements.

The next function needed is the friend request page. This would show the pending friend request of the current user using the ftable. The ftable stores the status of both users. If the status equals 0 and the current user is equal to user2, then we can assume that the other user sent a friend request. A SQL query will be run in which the status is equal to 0 and the current user is equal to user2. This will be passed to the flask, and the flask will show the current user pending friend request. In the page, there will be a text field in which the user can use to accept or decline the request of the other user. The username typed by the user will be checked to see if that user is on the pending request. If not it will result in an error message. This will be checked through a for loop and if statements. If the username is on the pending friend requests, then the user can accept or decline. If the user accepts then it will change the status to 0. However, if the user declines, the status will be changed to 1.

The next function is the meal requests. The meal request has a very similar structure to the friend request. There is a page called schedule meal. This page is a form that allows the user to send a meal request to another registered user. The form contains much of the basic information such as time, date, restaurant, notes, etc… All of these fields are required for the form except the notes section. If the user does not type in these fields, it will result in an error message. If the username does not exist, an error message will also appear. To check if the username is registered or exists, this uses a for loop to look through the users table. A for loop is used to see if the username exists. If the username does exist, then the scheduled meal will be added to the meals table with a status of 0. Similarly, a 0 means pending, 2 means accepted and 1 means declined. A meal id will also be assigned, which will be used for the meal requests of accepting or declining meals. The meal id is created by randomly generating a number from 1 to 15, and it will make sure the numbers are not repeated by looping through a list of the meal ids.

The next function is the meal requests. The meal requests show all the pending meal requests for the user, that they can either accept or decline. It loops through the meals table where user2 is equal to the current user and the status is 0. This will then be passed to the flask and be displayed on the table. Information of the pending meal includes meal type, time, date, restaurant, notes and meal id. As mentioned earlier, meal id is useful. In the text field the user can type the meal id they would like to accept or decline. Once they type the meal id, a check is done to make sure the meal id exists on the pending meal requests. This is using a for loop to check if the meal request exists. If they decline a meal, the whole meal request will be deleted from the table of meals. However, if they accept the meal request, the status will be changed to a 2. The function in which the user can see their current scheduled meals is on the my meals tab. This displays the accepted meals by looping through the meals table in which the status is 2.

Lastly, the last function is the search function. The search function allows the user to search themselves and other users. The search function will loop through the user table and display the information that the user typed. The search function uses a for loop to loop through the users table and pass on the typed user row to flask. If the user does not exist, it will show an error message.






